# Three-Tier-Distributed-Web-Based-Application

Objectives:To incorporate  many  of  the  techniques  you’ve  learned  so  far  this  semester  into  a  distributed three-tier web-  based application which uses servlets running on a Tomcat server to access and maintain a persistent MySQL database using JDBC.  Description:In   this   assignment   you   will   utilize   a   suppliers/parts/jobs/shipments   database (creation/population  script  available  on  the  course  assignment  page)  as  the  back-end  database.  Front-end access to this database by the client will occur through a single page displayed in the client’s web browser.  The  schema  of  the  backend  database  consists  of  four  tables  with  the  following  schemas  for  each table:suppliers (snum, sname, status, city)  //information about suppliersparts (pnum, pname, color, weight, city)  //information about partsjobs (jnum, jname, numworkers, city)  //information about jobsshipments (snum, pnum, jnum, quantity)  //suppliers ship parts to jobs in specific quantitiesThe  first-tier  (client-level front-end)  of  your  application  will  be  a  JSP  page  that  allows  the  client  to  enter  SQL  commands  into  a  window  (i.e.  a  form)  and  submit  them  to  the  server  application  for processing.  The front-end (and only the front-end) will utilize JSP technology.   The client front-end will  provide  the  user  a  simple  form  in  which  they  will  enter  a  SQL  command  (any  DML,  DDL,  or  DCL  command  could  theoretically be  entered  by  the  user,  however  we  will  restrict  to  queries,  insert,  update,  replace,  and  delete  commands).    The  front-end  will  provide  only  two  buttons  for  the  user,  anExecute button that will cause the execution of the SQL command they enter, and a Reset button that simply clears  any  content  in  the  form  input  area.    The  client  front-end  will  run  on  any  web-based browser  that  you  would  like  to  use.    You  can  elect  to  have  a  default  query  or  not,  it  is  entirely  your  decision.  The application will connect to the backend database as a root user client.The  second-tier  servlet,  in  addition  to  handling  the  SQL  command  interface  will  also  implement  the  business/application logic.  This logic will increment by 5, the status of a supplier anytime that supplier is involved in the insertion/update of a shipment record in which the quantity is greater than or equal to 100.    Note  that  any  update  of  quantity  >=  100  will  affect  any  supplier  involved  in  a  shipment  with  a  quantity >= 100.  The example screen shots illustrate this case.  An insert of a shipment tuple (S5, P6, J7, 400) will cause the status of every supplier who has a shipment with a quantity of 100 or greater to be increased by 5.  In other words, even if a supplier’s shipment is not directly affected by the update, their status will be affected if they have any shipment with quantity >= 100.  (See page 8 for a bonus problem  that  implements  a  modified version  of  this  business rule.)    The  business  logic  of  the  second  tier  will  reside  in  the  servlet  on  the  Tomcat  web-application  server  (server-side  application).  This means that the business logic is not to be implemented in the DBMS via a trigger.The third-tier (back-end) is the persistent MySQL database described above and is under control of the MySQL DBMS server.  All you need to do with the database is run the creation/population script.  See the important note below concerning when/how to re-run this script for your final submission. 
